#### Sports stadiums' crowd monitoring via an automated system for detection of organized movements in human crowds

###### Analysis of unstructured high-density crowded scenes for video surveillance and crowd monitoring

###### Computer vision algorithms can extract information from videos of crowded scenes and automatically track groups of individuals undergoing organized motion which might represent anomalous behavior. Computational tools and applied mathematics are indispensable for automated image analysis of human crowds, where information about changes in pixel intensity is translated into particle tracks used to detect rapid changes in crowd dynamics. We propose using the existing infrastructure of video cameras for collecting images and developing an innovative software system for parsing significant events by analyzing image sequences taken inside and outside of sports stadiums. Our specific aims are:
###### 1. To design and implement software for automated human detection and use our existing image analysis algorithms for human tracking in crowded scenes. 
###### 2. To develop novel computer vision algorithms for classifying motion patterns and anomalous motion identification in video surveillance.
###### We aim to develop a system that can reliably analyze the behavior of up 200000 people and vehicles located inside and in the surroundings of a large stadium. Our goal is to create a fully automated real-time accident aversion system. 
###### Rationale: Video cameras monitoring the activity of people around football venues are commonplace in cities worldwide. At sports games, where crowds of tens of thousands gather, such monitoring is vital for safety and security purposes. It is also challenging to automate. Human operators are generally employed for the task, but even the most vigilant individuals may fail to see important information that could ultimately signal the onset of a potentially dangerous situation, such as the overcrowding of a sector of the audience. Our research efforts are focused on developing a system that provides security personnel on the fly with an automatedly generated alert signal regarding the rapid motion of groups of individuals or events of interest in crowded scenes. More specifically, the system will offer crowd density estimation and prediction of overcrowding in front of the gates and parking lots around the sports arenas and within the stadium. Additionally, our system can detect the instance when small groups of fans are about to confront each other and predict the place of clash by calculating the opposing groups' speed and direction of motion.
###### Significance: We apply computer vision methods to capture the organized movement of groups of spectators in crowded scenes. Tracking in unstructured crowded scenes has recently gained attention in computer vision for the surveillance of human or vehicle motion in vulnerable public areas such as stadia, airports, train stations, or roads. Our approach offers a high-speed solution allowing real-time tracking. Thus, it could be used to predict on the fly anomalous behaviors or congestions associated with a security alert outside or within a sports stadium, an airport terminal, or with the arrival of a new train in a highly frequented station. This project will generate novel technology that can be used to analyze video of conflict situations at different types of sports stadiums, e.g., European football, American football, and baseball. Furthermore, we can envisage additional applications such as using the technology to detect dangerous behaviors at airports, train stations, political rallies, mass demonstrations, music festivals, large chain stores, and busy resorts, among other essential security applications. We have developed software applications for various platforms and devices, such as CCTV camera systems, smartphones (iOS/Android), and smart glasses (Vive/Hololens). Our technology can be made available as turn-key software or through a web interface where additional modules with algorithms to analyze images of specific types of motion from live online cameras, or other imaging methods can be added. 

###### Examples of published papers, since the summer of 2005, where the InstantenousFlowTracker has been used.

###### CVPR 2005: https://www.researchgate.net/publication/224625167_Reliable_tracking_of_large_scale_dense_antiparallel_particle_motion_for_fluorescence_live_cell_imaging

###### JCB 2010: https://www.researchgate.net/publication/256437106_Instantaneous_Flow_Tracker_IFT_applied_to_analysis_of_cell_division

###### CVIU 2011: https://www.researchgate.net/publication/51458935_Optimal-flow_minimum-cost_correspondence_assignment_in_particle_flow_tracking_Instantaneous_Flow_Tracker
